yes I can see okay awesome and so let's
get started we got now yeah
so tell me how we're great about what
what how would you like to be addressed
by the way um unions call me dumb let's
call me dumb yeah
all right Dom so tell me a little bit
about what we're talking about today and
how I can be helpful um I'm not sure so
uh your assistant reached out to me I
think he wanted to discuss like I so I
developed panic disorder when I was like
24 which is when I was in LCS which I
don't know if you're familiar with
League of Legends but that's like the I
guess the premier North American
competition here so pretty much like I
came from there that's like how people
know me I played LCS for five years nice
dream I developed like some depression
so I went to like a psychiatrist and
everything I was diagnosed with
depression and I got sober of last year
so 2019 but I'm feeling like pretty good
now with like everything in terms of
like mental health but yeah I mean I
obviously like still have some struggles
but definitely we're on the up right now
I was just a man I'm so happy to hear
that yeah Thanks so so then in the in
that case Don Dom I want you to think a
little bit about me as a resource right
yeah so like what how can I be helpful
to you or is there some and if nothing
comes to mind then I can you know I can
try to take the lead but is there
something that you are struggling with
or that you'd like to bet on I mean I
mean I guess the main thing that I've
struggled with is similar to like LS
just like negative feedback from
community like reddit Twitter stuff like
that okay so I think that that's like
the main thing that I like don't handle
super super well um I had to look better
now than I used to obviously like I went
to therapy like with a psychiatrist for
I think I did like three or four
sessions but I think that just even in
those three or four sessions it helped
like kind of like reframe how I should
think about things and then they kind of
like set me on the right path towards
like how you can become happier
so yeah just just recently a good for
you I was I was able to like I guess
listen to their advice on things and
yeah everything's been going a lot
better now yeah cool so when you say
things have been going a lot better like
what has
what has changed in your life that makes
things better like what does better look
like um so just like generally like more
happy throughout the day I'm looking
towards by I'm looking forward to a lot
of things okay um that I do also I think
maybe people are still saying them a
little bit too loud okay
thank you very much but uh yeah I mean I
guess I guess happiness for me is like
I'm looking forward to the things that
I'm doing like like every day I wake up
excited for the day I was before I was I
was kind of just like I was like
dreading streaming that was pretty much
my um inside looks like [ __ ] like I got
a stream today all right I'm gonna do it
and then I wake and then like because
I'm already expecting the negativity
almost it felt like almost focused on
the negativity coming out of my chest
because like if you ever stream gameplay
there's definitely gonna be some
percentage of people that are either
backs like seat gaming you criticizing
you criticizing like random things about
you
and when you're in that negative mindset
it's like super easy to just focus on
only those comments read only those
comments and just like have bad streams
so just generally speaking like I just
put things in place to just enjoy my
life more day to day so it's like the
way I scream is different now than what
I used to do just like the content I do
is different
and it's stuff that I look forward to
personally uh-huh and then I guess like
I don't know I just I make more of an
effort to see my friends in person you
know like just yeah just care about like
what I'm doing with my time yeah so I
guess that's what better looks like
that's awesome and so I have a couple of
thoughts for you okay or a couple of and
and maybe like directions we can go and
also thinking a little bit about what's
maybe applicable to our audience the
first thing that I want to point out is
when you talk about streaming so we
generate you talk about streaming you
say that sometimes are you used to wake
up every day and read streaming and now
you wake up every day and you look
forward to it yep so that to me is
actually in a bizarre way really really
confusing even though it makes perfect
sense and so I can empathize with what
you're describing because I felt the
same way about activities in my life
like where some days I wake up and I'm
looking forward to one activity and
another day I look I wake up and I don't
look forward to that activity the thing
that seems really illogical to
about that is if we think about it most
people think about activities as
positive or negative right we assign a
value to the activity so like we'll say
like I don't like going to school I
don't like going to work I like hanging
out with my friends I like going out and
partying
I like playing video games and so most
people conceptualize the activity as
like the source of goodness or badness
right either it's fun or it's not fun
chores not going but if we really stop
and listen to what you're saying it's
really fascinating because even though
the activity may have changed a little
bit here there that your experience of
the activity will be positive or
negative which implies that your
enjoyment of life actually has is not
dependent on the activity that you do
but is dependent on something within you
mm-hm
what do you think about that Oh hun
percent agree so I guess the way that I
like rationalize that is the way that I
stream is so drastically different now
than what it used to be in terms of like
what the type of content I do in general
that it just gives me like a better
outlook just inherently because I'm more
excited for the things that I'm doing on
stream rather than what I was doing
before so like because I and I think
that it also just feeds into like my
chat interaction because I'm doing
things that I'm excited about for people
like sense that excitement or they sense
that like positivity and they don't
really want to like say anything
negative like they're just the odd man
out if their relatives towards me in my
chat so I think that that's it's kind of
like why it was so much better yeah so
Dom what I'm I'm hearing you say is that
when you bring posit so the way the
content has changed therefore you're
more positive and if you are more
positive when you stream it creates a
different interaction which then also
reinforces your enjoyment of the stream
yeah exactly right but that's also kind
of interesting because I'm I think the
key thing there you kind of talk about
the content change as where the start of
of the cycle is right so the change
comes because you change the what what
content you stream that's what you're
saying right but I wonder how much
that has to do with your attitude right
so even though that the content has
changed your attitude is it possible to
change your attitude in and of itself
and can that be the source of changing
your life so yeah that's pretty much
what we're trying to do so before I
guess the way I'll explain is I used to
just stream only gameplay obviously I'm
an ex pro player so people originally
knew me for my gameplay and that's like
where my first fan base came from and
then over time you know I wasn't playing
as much I wasn't enjoying the game as
much and I decided like okay maybe this
isn't the right thing for me like I've
done the same things forever and it felt
like when you're just doing the same
thing every single day for four years
there's nothing exciting to you anymore
so after we developed like an idea for
creating better content we're starting
to now try to apply that like good
attitude I have in that content towards
my normal stream so I do do gameplay a
certain amount of the time now like
right now our challenge on streams we're
trying to go because I'm known as like I
like toxic or like a flamer in game like
I like talk [ __ ] in game right that's
how people perceive me that's pretty
much like how I'm known in the community
to some extent obviously there's there's
good and bad but that's definitely part
of I'm characterized on the internet so
we're trying to go we're trying to do
the same type of like grind that we
would always do which is go from the
lowest rating in the game for the
highest rating in the game but we're
trying to do that with only a positive
attitude towards my teammates so I don't
say one negative thing to my team has
that were me so far we've we've not
flames a teammate we're about 50 games
it's a challenge we've not flamed anyone
but this is like the easiest part of it
because when you're in lower rating you
obviously win a lot more games it gets
really hard when you get like towards
the top and like one mistake and just
like lose you the game or put you far
behind and why do you flame so look okay
so this is great man so I'm really
excited to kind of talk further with you
can I lay out a couple of other options
and then let me know what you're
interested in or what chat is interested
in so one is further exploring how
attitudes so it's not the activity that
changes like interleague so the one
activity can we think about activities
as positive or negative but what I'm
hearing from you is that your attitude
actually if
facts whether the activity is fun or not
fun and so we can explore a little bit
about how you changed your attitude
because I think a lot of people are
stocked because they perceive an
activity like oh going to school is
boring or going to work is boring and if
we can better understand how you were
able to shift your attitude then maybe
people can start to do things that they
normally don't conceive of is fun yeah
and and that can start to be fun for
them so that's one option okay
definitely I mean I would like to talk
about that I mean it's obviously like
really basic stuff it's gonna sound so
dumb when I say it but part of it was
just that I wasn't taking care of myself
like in the proper way so I used to
stream every single day so for four
years I streamed every single day
starting at midnight and I would wake up
at midnight and I would stream until 8
a.m. so I changed my sleep schedule and
I always felt like [ __ ] up doing that
schedule like I always felt groggy when
I woke up it felt weird going to sleep
in the middle of the day like 4 p.m.
you're trying to go to sleep it's light
outside it just feels wrong even when
you get enough sleep it still just feels
feels bad so I changed my sleep schedule
I now start my stream at like 6 7 a.m.
so I wake up in the morning this is like
mainly through my like when I went to a
psychiatrist these are like the glaring
things or it's like you need to change
this [ __ ] was my diet like now I eat
three times a day I try to like start
the day with like oatmeal and a coffee
and then I just have like more healthy
meals throughout the day that's another
thing that helped me a lot
so diet and then just starting to
exercise again which I've been pretty
bad about recently but in the beginning
I tried to implement that into my life
so just like having just I guess a more
healthy body
I think drastically changed my attitude
so yeah dude-- yeah dude-- the the
challenge for me right now is that
everything you're saying is something
that I want to spend an hour talking to
you about talking about the relationship
between your body and mind the other
thing that I just want to drive home is
that you know what part of happiness or
contentment or joy comes from you and
what part of it comes from the outside
world
right like let's just think about this
for a second because what you're saying
is that your enjoyment of life
and we generally tend to conceptualize
pain or enjoyment is coming from outside
of us we think about our circumstances
we're like I'm unhappy because my
girlfriend broke up with me and so most
human beings really think about the
source of their unhappiness and it makes
perfect sense right if you get dumped by
your girlfriend like you're gonna be
unhappy but we think about we don't
think about so let's take the case of a
guy who gets dumped by his girlfriend
like the solution there is to you know
mourn for a little while and then like
find another girlfriend because that's
the solution to loneliness like you know
the substitute for a girlfriend is
another girlfriend we don't think about
the solution as and I love it what you
said you said eat three times a day
right we're not talking about like
eating super healthy we're not talking
about like increasing like going vegan
or eating like salads for lunch every
day you're just saying like [ __ ] eat
three times a day like real real low
barrier trying to eat healthy is not
what you said was successful for you you
say yeah I try to eat healthy try
implies that you don't succeed very much
but it sounds like what you are doing is
actually just eating three times a day
yep and
that is a fantastic example of like the
bar for feeling better and enjoying life
more is actually not about changing your
circumstances it's not about graduating
from college and getting a super nice
job it's not about making more money
it's about eating three times a day for
me yeah yeah it sounds crazy because
that's not the way we think about it
mm-hmm right yeah I mean it was all
things that I signed like really low
amounts of value to I was like yeah I
don't sleep enough and I know I have
like a [ __ ] up diet but that [ __ ] like
doesn't really matter to me like that's
not the reason why I'm unhappy it's
because like all this other stuff what
did you so much what did you think were
the reasons you were unhappy I thought
it was because I felt like reddit and
like Twitter and like all these big
social platforms like what heavily
mischaracterize me I thought it was
because of you know like I would read
like threads about how I'm like this
awful person like I'm a piece of [ __ ]
which happens to like everyone and I
just don't perceive people the same way
that those platforms do like a bunch of
the people you've had on here I've met
in real life like like reckful for
example and Mitch Jones ls and if you
read how people are
talked about like it's like these people
are just like [ __ ] on the bottom of
their boot that's literally how people
describe these people on livestream fail
ly like League of Legends subreddit
cetera and I just don't view like these
people as bad people I feel like they're
all good people so I want to continue
talking about positivity but I also want
to mention just another thing that we
could talk about which is like toxicity
in general and you were sort of saying
that you know if you start to play
poorly or you start to flame that like
people on twitch ad are gonna be toxic
towards you on people on LSM or toxic
towards you it sounds like you yourself
are like I'm toxic right so it's like if
I'm toxic or if they can label me as
toxic then it's like easy to be toxic to
the toxic sure feels like everyone wants
that outlet to be toxic on those but I
think we could also talk a little bit
about like where toxicity comes from so
you're saying that they mirror what you
give them which is also in line with
what you were saying about your
positivity or negativity on stream that
that you know people sort of follow
where you lead but then this question
still be caught like we can still
explore the question of why were you
toxic in the first place and why are
other people toxic in the first place
like where does toxicity come from you
know how does it affect us so we can
kind of explore toxicity we can explore
whether happiness or positive like
happiness or dissatisfaction comes from
reddit mischaracterizing you or eating
three meals a day which is also
collecting to me the last thing that I
kind of want to just mention to you and
it doesn't sound like we're gonna get to
this is it sounds like you haven't sort
of said this explicitly but it sounds
like at some point you started changing
the way that you view your identity then
yeah and and so I'm curious about how
much of your suffering or positive
trajectory or negative trajectory comes
from a sense like your definition of who
you are and how your life changed when
you started to view yourself in a
different way yeah so out of these three
there's part of our you know so like I
guess one thing I was gonna say is so
part of that came because I feel like
everything really just lined up like I'm
pretty lucky in the way it all lined up
because I I ended up changing my content
right and I tried to change my attitude
but then really what happened is like
because my content was
good or like at least in the League of
Legends community people just liked what
I was doing like I was doing certain
types of like Co streams that was doing
more analytical stuff and people valued
the stuff I was putting out I started
just receiving a lot more positive
feedback so I was somebody who was like
majority like majority hated on reddit
or at least League of Legends reddit for
like a lot of years and then when my
content improved you know all the cut
all the comments changed so I think that
kind of helped me feel better about
myself because I would read these
comments that are suddenly like you know
sometimes Dom gets frustrated in game
but you know recently he's trying harder
to be better and I really like him in
this format like there was just a lot
more positivity so it's because it feels
like everything kind of just lined up to
like yeah allow me to be happier so I
you know Dom respectfully I'm gonna
actually bizarre as the sounds disagree
with you a little bit and what I'm
really curious about is I think your
success sure you got positive feedback
in that fuel that but I think the key
thing here is how did you decide to try
new content yeah so pretty much what
happened was before I was really
motivated by you know stream numbers
like I was super focused on stream
members growth like everything like that
and I thought that what I was doing was
taking a hit I was like I'm just gonna
do stuff that I want to do that I think
will get less viewership but it'll be
more fulfilling to me so that I could be
more proud of what I was putting out so
yeah I mean that was pretty much like
what happened in my mind I tried to like
sacrifice the money and like growth of
my stream to do things that are
fulfilling but it end up just all
working out so yeah so but I think
that's the key thing right so if we
think about what you were doing you
actually made a sacrifice or you moved
away you did something that on paper was
a bad idea
mm-hm right you were saying like okay so
I'm focused on viewership numbers and if
I try something new people come to my
stream because they're expecting
something and and so in a sense you were
providing good content right like you
had a pretty stable viewership but you
know you had a good thing going and the
interesting thing that I'm hearing from
you is that you actually walked away
from a good thing by trying to new new
content yeah well yeah what was
perceived as a good thing yet like I
don't I wasn't necessarily growing but I
was pretty stable but
with my view count yeah I'm with you I
think perceived as the key word here
right so I think a lot of people do what
they perceive to be a good thing instead
of doing what like feels right to them
like we have this formula for success
and we have this idea that like okay if
I do X Y & Z I'm gonna be successful if
I continue streaming like you know
generally speaking most most twitch
streamers know that like if you're a
particular kind of get like if you're
like let's say a hearthstone player or a
law player and you try to play a new
game what happens to your viewership
exactly right so it's kind of common
knowledge that trying new stuff on
stream is like an objectively a bad idea
so what I think is really awesome about
what you were doing what you were able
to do is you had a particular formula
from six for success which you actually
walked away from how are you able to do
that right how are you able to make that
sacrifice um I think it like part of it
was just like talking to talking to my
mom about things and just like being
like okay like have I made enough money
at this point to like live modestly for
the rest of my life so once I'd like hit
that point where I felt like I'm gonna
be okay no matter what like I can move
to a place that doesn't have high like
taxing like I can move to like an area
and I could be fine I can raise the
family like I can do that once I hit
that like that number in my head were up
like okay I'm fine forever
then I just stopped caring as much about
the success of my stream because I
didn't view that like I just want to be
able to live the way that I like grew up
which was not like particularly I was
like middle-class like not particularly
particularly luxurious but I have
everything I need you know I always have
food always have like the ability to do
what I want so yeah so it sounds like
you hit a particular amount of financial
security that allowed you to take a
chance yeah yep at the same time I it
sounds like your financial security
while that gave you the kind of gave you
the security to take a chance it sounds
like your success does not actually have
to do with your financial security Yeah
right
I think outwardly that's what that's how
its
but yeah I think it's this is important
to understand right so for people who
are feeling stuck I I think that what
I'm really like what this is by the way
going in a completely different
direction from panic disorder and
depression which is great but I what I'm
really kind of fascinated by is that and
I've noticed this kind of time and again
that I think that success doesn't come
from taking good opportunities I think
success comes from walking away from
good opportunities what do you think
about that that's like I mean it's
definitely an interesting way to it just
sounds it sounds so so logical but I
guess I guess that that does make sense
because if you're walking away from good
opportunities you're probably doing it
for a reason so if like the reason it's
good enough for you that sounds like so
what kind of and spot-on right so here's
the point that I'm making and I think
you kind of embody this is that in order
to walk away from it like what is it
within you that allows you to walk away
from a good opportunity like what do you
have to do to walk away from a
successful stream I mean I guess for me
you just have to convince yourself that
the benefits you're gonna get from
whatever you're gonna do in the future
is going to be like you're just gonna
have some type of positive over what you
had before so it could be like what kind
what kind of benefit so I think that's
important right so what kind of benefit
what were you what if we think about you
stopping your loss stream there's
traditional rock little all stream and
doing like more analysis and other
things like that
what were you moving towards within
yourself um just like like more like
emotional happiness I guess so is just
like it was trading off like security I
guess for emotional well-being yeah I
guess I even sort of answered so I think
what I what I'm noticing is that
actually when I say what were you moving
towards within yourself that's the key
thing is that you stopped moving towards
the external world and you started
moving towards yourself mm-hmm
is that fair to say yep and and it's
awfully fair and and that I think is
like beautiful and I think it's critical
because when most people feel stuck in
life where do they move
I mean normally they move I would say it
would be like Alps it right like it
would be more like external they've
moved towards like more external success
absolutely right so the worse that you
feel about yourself the more that you
gravitate towards an external thing you
kind of come up with a formula for
success and I imagine that when you were
feeling shitty before you decided to
kind of make this big change which
sounds like it came through a lot of
conversation and a lot of reflection
right it's not like something that you
just woke up one day and you're like
[ __ ] it I'm done with this yeah it
sounds like my friends and you know yeah
so it sounds like you did a lot of
soul-searching to try to figure out what
you wanted to do before you went through
this process how did you feel about like
like when you were feeling shitty about
like what's a so how long ago were you
in the LCS uh four years ago okay so
let's say like one and a half years
after leaving the LCS how happy were you
um I'd say I was pretty happy but that
was because like it was the first time
where I had because when I was in the
LCS of his complete different thing way
I'd never experienced financial success
and then I also was like traveling a bit
and I like fell in love with a girl from
Australia and I just liked traveling to
Australia so I just like felt like my
life was so cool at that point it's like
oh I can work from anywhere like I've
been you know up until this point for
the last five six years I've been like
in a gaming house grinding and now I
have the freedom that I can just go to
Australia for three months and just like
experience all these new things so I'd
say I was pretty happy at that point cuz
everything was just like different what
happened to your happiness um well I
mean obviously like the start of a
relationship is always the best part I
feel like we're not necessarily always
the best part but there's like a
honeymoon phase obviously right I think
you start being more realistic with like
your flaws the other person's flaws how
you guys actually like wind up together
so the relationship just ended up being
you know less and less beneficial for
for my happiness personally also like
yeah I mean we were both dealing with
with our own things like we both had
depression at the same time which was
like kind of like and I think that's
kind of like when you're when you live
with somebody that that's depressed I
feel like it's it's like
you become depressed too or something
absolutely right so like we both weren't
like in the best state and then also I
think that my career started to plateau
because I think part of the reason why I
was so happy and like like a year and a
half in it was like every like bit I
would be like oh I get to see my viewers
go for like 3k and a 3.5 to 4k like I
was very like focused on that being
success more viewers equals success
that's like what my mentality was so
everything was going up and then my
relationship started to like plateau and
then maybe even decline and then my
career started to plateau so then it's
just like when when you start plateauing
I feel like when you don't feel like
you're making any progress in your
career and you don't feel like you're
making any progress in your relationship
it just it felt like I just wasn't like
doing anything positive like I didn't
feel like I was growing day by day it
was just like oh I'm just like existing
yeah beautifully set right you're just
existing so you're not you're not really
like living life it's just life is just
moving around you you know and it's just
kind of proceeding on its own and you're
just kind of there day to day so I want
to tunnel down into this a little bit so
you know how is your life different now
and in terms of in terms of what in
terms of like like feeling happy um well
I guess like part of it is that instead
of looking at view count for things I'm
more like proud of the content that I
produce so when I go back I feel like
because I've started like now I have two
podcasts that I do and they're well
received in the community and I just
like doing them they're really exciting
for me I have like bodies of work where
at the end of it it's like it's not like
oh I just grinded another year for no
reason I can look back at like my
YouTube videos or I can like put like
look at like a playlist of all my my
videos and be like that is like a body
of work I did here's my show the crack
down season one there it is I did that
I'm proud of it I'm happy about that so
like professionally I feel like I have
some gratification whereas before it was
kind of just like month to month like
let's try to just do things that Cyprian
more viewership exactly so so I'm and
Dom you got to let me know if I'm like
hammering at a point too much but I just
hear you you lacing it into so much of
what you're saying so I just want you to
think a little bit about where was your
barometer of success coming from when
you
were unhappy um just like average view
account exactly literally like the
biggest where is your barometer for hat
for success coming from now um just like
when I'm done with whatever I produce
feeling good about it like if I if I
don't get any viewers and I'm hat and
like I do a piece of content that I like
I'm just like okay that was good for me
you know that was beneficial so like
even even things like coming on um like
you're surely I would are like yeah
being able to talk to you this is
something like before I'd be like last
year I'd be weighing that like in the
mentality of like oh this like increased
my branding well like I'd be getting
like followers from this like it was
like a really like [ __ ] up way to
think but I think that just like when
you stream for so long and you talk to
all these streamers it just becomes like
so hammered into you so I'd be like
thinking about okay I'm talking to dr. K
is it better to the stream for three
hours if I made more money streaming
through it for three hours do I gain
more reach by talking to dr. K and that
would be just like the my like what I'd
be think what got in my head to judge
whether or not I sure that that does
that what's [ __ ] up about that that's
how I'm very intelligent to me well I
think it's just like so business II when
the point of talking to you is I get to
talk to a Harvard PhD psychologist that
is extremely intelligent about you know
about these things that I'm that I'm
thinking about you know so it's like
it's an opportunity to talk to you it's
not an opportunity to grow my brand yeah
so how do you think it is that you're
able to change the way that you look at
a conversation right so like this once
again nothing has changed in the outside
world something has changed within you
which affects the way that you look at
the outside world um yeah I don't know I
guess it's just like that quest for like
I guess I guess it's just like being
conscious of like your own happiness and
then like questing towards that I guess
it would be yeah and and so I think this
so most people are conscious of their
own unhappiness and and the way that
they quest towards it is on the outside
right like and that's what you were
doing for a long time like you were
thinking about the outside you were
thinking about the outcomes you were
thinking about viewership you were think
about monetization those are all
important business decisions and I
adventure that you actually still think
about that stuff right yeah definitely
but like I guess I guess the main thing
that I would say is like I assign value
to other things before before I didn't I
didn't assign value to like hang out
with my friends for a night like it was
like oh that
like I don't gain anything from that
monetarily or business-wise so it's not
valuable so I think that my mentality
change like trying to find the value
within like just your actions throughout
the day like come on spending two hours
talking to you like what is the value of
that what is the value of like having
you know a good conversation with my
friends like how am I gonna feel the
next day like just assigning more value
to those types of things I think helped
me like mentally a lot yeah
beautifully said right so if I I think
if I had to find an answer to all of the
questions I've been asking you Dom I
think you just gave it to me so most
people who were stuck they have a set
they have like a chart in their mind
about what's valuable and they tend to
gravitate towards the things that are
high value right like you kind of think
about okay if I do this
like what's valuable is getting more
viewership in making more money getting
building my brand that's what is
valuable and so what happens is all of
your actions you think about okay
there's high value stuff and there's low
value stuff and you chase the high value
stuff and you forget about the low value
stuff the fundamental thing start go
ahead well I was just gonna say I also
just like felt like I was being a [ __ ]
if I wasn't pursuing that stuff so if I
like exactly went out and partied I was
like oh that's like a day I just lost
streaming like I'm just like [ __ ] up
I'm being selfish is kind of how I
viewed it yeah it's like good to be
selfish in that
yeah it's that way I would say so so the
reason that you felt like it sounds like
you felt like a [ __ ] but that once
again is based on your perception of
what's valuable and what is it like you
felt like a [ __ ] you felt like you
felt selfish and guilty for doing the
low value thing instead of a high value
thing mm-hm
what I'm hearing from you now this is
that I tried to jot down your exact word
egde because I thought it was it was
excellent
trying to find value and activities
throughout the day that's fundamentally
what I think has changed about you yeah
is that what you've done is instead of
having a standard of high value and low
value in gravitating towards high value
stuff you tried to find value and so
instead of like your life being about
ups and downs like there's good stuff
and there's bad stuff there's horizontal
value across the board and so what it
does is it allows you to do different
kinds of activities which sort of
enriches your life overall and what's
happened to your success over the last
two or three years well I mean in the
last yeah in the last two or three
months since I've been I guess or like I
guess maybe five months six months now
yeah it just all went up like
everything's just been better
so that's [ __ ] weird right so like if
we think about you started moving away
from the high value things and your
success has improved yep so this goes
back to and I'm convinced of this
because I've talked to a lot of people
who've been very successful and and what
it basically is is like I I kind of what
I see in all of them they're not all I
mean all is a lot but you know I think
what I've observed the joys to them is
that most of them do essentially what
you did which is that they walk away
from the high value stuff so success
once again comes away from walking away
from good opportunities not taking them
and oftentimes we think about good
opportunities as like things that we
really need to be doing and we beat
ourselves up go ahead you look well no I
was gonna say like are they are there
opportunities actually good if you're
like the better option is to walk away
from them beautifully put right and in
the this is what's changed about your
mindset because you used to think that
there are good opportunities and there
are bad opportunities and and now what
I'm hearing from you is is spot-on
that's like that's the next-level
comment is that when you look at an
opportunity it can look good on paper
but it doesn't mean that it's good for
you right and in that that like when we
think about what someone says is a good
opportunity we're using some kind of
objective or external criteria and the
whole point is that it's actually not a
good opportunity even though it looks
like a good opportunity if you asked a
dozen streamers or a hundred streamers
would you consider like if you have a
successful viewership count
delivering one kind of content would you
think about decreasing that content and
trying something new what are they gonna
say I mean I guess it depends on the
streamer because I've had I have had
friends that have just like walked away
from that but most people are just gonna
be like you know that's just a dumb
business decision like it's exactly
right killing your so it is exactly
killing your career that's walking away
from a quote unquote good opportunity
and they're all [ __ ] wrong so I think
that you you have your business acumen
which I'm sure you leverage to make a
successful podcast right it's not like
you just wake up one day and and you
just decide to follow your heart it's
using all your business acumen but not
sacrificing the person that you are of
course I still click the [ __ ] out of my
podcast right yes oh that's exactly what
you have to do so I'm not saying you let
go of that it's about sort of not being
a slave to that click mate it's about
you being in charge of the clickbait
instead of the clickbait being in charge
of you and used to be like you know if
it's if it's not click beta ballif I
can't get more viewership I'm not gonna
do it now you're saying like ok let me
use my click baiting skills to do
something that I love and try to make it
successful and reach more people sounds
beautiful
yeah it's all working out yeah man I'm
really really happy for you you you have
any thoughts or questions I just
realized I've been kind of steering the
conversation for a while no I mean I
guess my thoughts right now err I think
the way that you've like spoken about
things has given me like a better idea
of just like categorizing certain things
like because like I've thought of a lot
of this stuff but I haven't really you
know had a conversation with somebody
where I was like ok assign value to
other things throughout the day which
makes a lot of sense because I um so I
this is gonna sound weird but I look
into like a rapper named Jay Cole I
don't know if you know Jay Cole but he's
a huge rapper and he was talking about
like kind of how he dealt with uh he
didn't really talk about depression but
he talked about something similar to it
I guess like how he got out of like a
funk I guess is what what he said and
one of the things that he was talking
about his assigning value to random
things throughout the day so like if he
took out the trash you try to like be
like hey this is like has a purpose and
like like I'm taking out the trash and
then when he was
done with that task he felt good about
himself afterwards where before it would
just be like yeah he's gotta [ __ ]
take out the trash so I think that that
is like kind of that's like pretty
accurate in what the like goal is of
trying to just be happy it's like
assigning value to things and then like
when you've completed them be allowing
yourself to feel good about completing
them so beautifully part Dom because
this kind of goes back to this idea that
taking out the trash is an activity and
most people think that taking out the
trash is a chore no one looks at taking
out the trash as an opportunity and so
it is it is not actually the task which
brings us happiness or unhappiness it is
our attitude towards the task and the
value that we're able to assign to it
that's what I'm hearing from you and
that is something that I think very very
very few people understand because if
you think about like how do we live our
life it's like oh go to college get a
job get married have kids these are all
things that we think about is like
high-value tasks and so we gravitate
towards those things and then what
happens is that you end up is my patient
which is like a 45 year old investment
banker who's very successful has a
million dollar home and you know makes
tons of money every year and feels empty
inside because what he has done is chase
the high value task time and time and
time again instead of like as cheesy as
the sounds following his heart right and
so he dreads going to work every day but
he does it because it's it's a good
opportunity and when he thinks about
quitting the ideas like like terrifying
to him and he goes to his mentors in his
bosses and his colleagues and he's like
hey I'm thinking about quitting and
they're like man you're crazy like
everyone wants to be like you know
managing partner at Goldman Sachs and
you're one step away why would you walk
away from this it's such an amazing
opportunity I think that's one of the
opportunities that streaming has is like
even though you will have like a certain
audience that is keen to whatever
content you've produced originally I
feel like you can kind of do whatever
you want at the end of the day like
there is nothing that says like you have
to like I don't have to just wake up and
stream leads every day like I could do
something else whereas like if you are
an investment
banker it feels like you're kind of more
pigeon-holed into like like that is what
your degree is in like you should be an
investment banker at that point why is
why do you want why do you believe that
his situation is different from yours um
I guess because of like the amount of
work he probably put in in like
positioning himself within that field to
to be successful so his like whatever
college degree he ended up getting I
assume that he has to get a master's
potentially a PhD like all those things
to grind towards one goal I feel like it
kind of puts you in a yeah how old are
you don't mind me asking 29 okay so I'm
pretty sure that you have you have grind
like four years ago or three years ago
I'm pretty sure that the amount of grind
that both of you had done was comparable
or even yours is greater potentially
right so IIIi don't I think that yes I
guess what I was pretty much a meowt was
like my grind was essentially to like it
sounds weird but it's like your grind is
like to become popular on the Internet
where his grind was towards getting like
qualifications to be able to perform
whatever job he's doing now yeah and and
so so I think that you know this is
something that I understand your
perception is that way I don't really
agree so I think that is capacity to
become a streamer is about as high as
your capacity to become an investment
banker but I think that like you can
sort of do when you say you can do
whatever you want you can't really do
whatever you want to what you can do is
move like one step laterally at a time
within your field right so has you
become a like an influencer or streamer
you can start to create new content but
you're still a streamer but you're just
kind of moving laterally and he's
capable of doing the same lateral move
so he can move from Investment Banking
into venture capital he can become an
angel investor he can become CFO chief
financial officer of like a company yeah
he can move that way and that's
basically what I did too I mean I'm I'm
a you know a psychiatrist and so I
trained for many many years to like
understand psychiatry and neuroscience
and so I can't become a pro gamer but I
can sure as hell start talking to gamers
about their mental health and how their
brain works that's like a really big
lateral step if you think about it
yeah that makes that make sense you're
definitely right about that yeah and and
so I think um you know as you understand
the individual field I think everyone
can make lateral changes you can't jump
from like a to Z but you can definitely
go from like a to D and what I'm hearing
from you is that you've branched out
laterally and I think this is also
something that's leads to a lot of
successes when people start branching
out laterally from there like one thing
so to produce a podcast I think is like
a fantastic idea right because you're
kind of there's some of your core
audience and then you're kind of
appealing to like slightly different
people you're kind of expanding your
base by offering a different kind of
content there are a lot of people like
so what percentage of League of Legends
players have podcasts ah not sure that's
a very small amount exactly right so
you're also differentiating yourself
from your competition because there are
lots of people who are League of Legends
players there are lots of pros lots of
streamers it's a very popular game but
not everyone has a podcast so you're
kind of enhancing your brand by kind of
expanding that way so I mean yeah I'm
just I'm really happy to am I just
talking too much because I'm excited I
love what I'm hearing okay let's make it
yeah it's making perfect sense I think
it's helping how is it helping I guess
just like giving more definition to a
lot of like the ideas I've had and like
some reinforcement on certain ideas some
like new opinions on other ideas like
obviously like the what we just talked
about about like lateral movements
within your field I think that's like
something that I can definitely take and
like apply to whatever I do next if I do
something next or just like a different
way to kind of think about what I am
doing because I kind of just view it as
like oh I'm doing different [ __ ] but
it's better to think about it as like
lateral moves within your field I think
that's like a very like good idea yeah
so I'm happy it's helpful and I'm a
little bit curious why does defining
stuff help um I guess it's because then
when I think about the concept I can
kind of just like jump to things so
instead of just thinking about like
things in so many words in my head or
just like I don't have to be like oh I
move from this to that and like leave
like like I can just be like that's a
lot of move within my field
what's another idea like what so that's
the concept right so then if I like him
define the concept to me
I think that it just will like help me
apply it later on okay so sense makes a
lot of sense Dom I'm gonna still push
you a little bit okay all right so now
what I'm gonna ask you to do is define
how defining is helpful so right so so
like so I think defining is helpful
because it gives you like a mental
framework in which you can like apply
the concept to different things what is
different about problem-solving with a
mental framework versus problem-solving
without a mental framework what does it
do in your mind I think it's like just
like it's like driving when you have
like directions that's kind of how I see
it it's just like having a map to
something okay so this is gonna sound
some kind of like a dumb question but
why is driving with directions better
than driving without directions I guess
it just makes you feel more like calm
and stable while you're while you're
driving like for me like I'll just I'll
feel better about it so I'm sure you
feel better about it but I think if we
think about the like pardon me for
saying so I just don't think that that's
really that's a piece of it but that's
not the majority of it right if I'm
trying to get from point A to point B
exactly right it has nothing to do with
how I [ __ ] feel it's about like
knowing where you're going right yeah
and and so this is where I'm gonna pull
do you meditate by the way
no okay I tried I've tried a couple
times I think that it's super high value
right I just I don't know I feel like I
should okay so like that's that's like a
long can we can we save a little bit of
time I'd love to talk to you about
meditation if you're interested in
learning I'd love to help you try to
problem-solve about how you can meditate
in a way that feels comfortable for you
yeah and is helpful so I'm gonna use a
concept from meditation so this is what
I'm gonna say so if we think about
getting from you know where you are to
where your destination is if you have a
road map it essentially focuses the
effort of driving does that make sense
so instead of driving across ten
different roads
you pick the one Road and so all of your
gas is spent on getting from point A to
point B instead of driving all over the
place what a mental framework does
essentially focuses your mental energy
in a particular direction and so if we
listen to some of the language that you
use you felt like you were doing quote
all kinds of random stuff if I had to
use a word to describe that it would be
unfocused yeah does that make sense
so I think that generally speaking the
reason that defining our problems is
important is because we are all
generally speaking pretty smart people
and we have a high amount of mental
energy when a lot of people feel stuck I
think that they start to feel stupid
about themselves or they start to feel
unhappy or whatever and they start to
think that like essentially their stats
are too low right they think like oh I'm
lazy or I'm undisciplined or I have low
willpower so their wills power score is
like a three instead of like an eighteen
and someone who looks at you and they
say like oh wow DOM is so successful
he's super disciplined do you think the
reason that your success is because
you're disciplined I thought I used to
think a part of it was but yeah I don't
think that's a huge part of it anymore
what do you think it is I'm not I'm not
a hundred percent sure I think
definitely there was there was some
element of luck because I was in early
and then I've never really thought about
that I don't know I think it might I
think it might be like so I mean I I
think it might be like uniqueness like
because I was like I don't know I was
just more vocal about my thoughts
towards things and I was more just like
harsh or like you know it was very um
extreme I guess with with my thoughts I
thought that that might have been part
of like the reason why people wanted to
like even if they don't agree with me
the fact that I would say things that
other people wouldn't say we just like
gravitate them towards me I'm not sure
okay so I think it's worth exploring you
know to understand so a lot of times you
spend a lot of time like understanding
why we fail right so like if you think
about like if you're a law player would
you say that watching a replay where you
lose or
to replay where you win is more valuable
I mean obviously watching yourself lose
exactly right yeah but let's think about
that for a second because I don't think
that that's actually true tell me where
I'm going what am I so this is kind of
like watching yourself lose within like
your career and analyzing that and
trying to learn from that it's going to
give you like a better like it's gonna
help you grow more than like watching
yourself be successful and what do you
think about that right that's definitely
what's 100 percent right that you should
be viewing like like when you take Elves
you should be really trying to
internalize like and grow from those as
much as possible and use them as like
opportunities for improvement rather
than you know just feel bad about them I
completely agree with that the other
thing is the other point that I'm trying
to make is that I think you can learn a
lot from your w's as well right so I
think that learning why you lose is just
as important as learning why you win and
in fact we have a bias to focus on the
losses and instead like what we should
actually do is like like understand why
we're winning so when I think about you
know when I talk to people most people
talk to me about their problems but what
I think is just as important is so
they'll say oh I can't take out the
trash but I think what's just as
important is have you ever taken out the
trash and the answer to that is yes and
then asking them what was different
about that day mm-hm right so that you
can study your successes
just like you study your failures and
that if you really want to be successful
you should study your failures and
successes and understand why on on one
day you make the right choice and on
another day you make the wrong choice
mm-hmm right so yeah so anyway I think
studying your successes is actually very
important and I think for us like
digging into why you've been successful
I want to come back to one word which is
uniqueness so I think luck is also an
important word and I think there's a lot
behind these and and I think the reason
that uniqueness is important is from
what I'm hearing from you is that you
allowed yourself to be yourself yeah
yeah I would say I would say so
but right it definitely been me in the
ass sure as well that's that's part of
the
process but if you think about it I
think a lot of people are held back
because they have a formula for success
which is based on the high value things
and the low value things and they
gravitate towards the high value things
because they think that this is an
external formula for success because
this is what allowed Dom to be
successful this is what allowed dr. K to
be successful so I have to do what they
did in order to be successful and this
kind of circles back to the good
opportunities right they say like oh I
need operat like if I take a good
opportunity that sort of this objective
idea of like good for everyone it's like
a universal ranking does that make sense
yeah and what I'm hearing from you is
that you allowed yourself to be yourself
and I think that a lot of success comes
from people instead of following someone
else's PlayBook understanding that your
life is fundamentally different that
your circumstances are fundamentally
different in that you are fundamentally
different from any human being who has
ever existed you know no one has been a
pro of Law five years ago named Dom who
produces a podcast that you have a fully
unique circumstance in life and that the
more that you base your strategy on your
unique circumstance the more like the
better off you're gonna do like does
that just logically make sense but yeah
but the crazy thing is that's not what
people do right like what do most people
do to try to be successful Dom they
funnel themselves into whatever mold has
been created by other people that have
been successful exactly and so if we
really look at your success it sounds
like you sort of found your own way to
being a pro ballplayer and then you also
find the lido self into a mold based on
other people which is he became the
former pro who became a streamer and you
found some success and it sounds like a
lot of your enjoyment for the first year
or two afterward because you had made it
right and you're just posting and
enjoying the fruits of your labor which
it absolutely makes sense but ultimately
those kinds of pleasurable activities
that are really cool are not going to
lead to your sustained happiness it's
essentially like material pursuits that
agree or disagree agree yeah and then
now what you're doing is living a life
that is dynamic Dharma is the Sun Square
the word for duty or responsibility
and I think what you're doing is you're
living a life of like duty to yourself
and to other people what do you think
about that does that make sense
hmm I think it almost sounds like too
pure for what I'm doing but I agree with
like the overall yeah yeah it just
sounds like a little too pure for me
makes makes a lot of sense so the Dharma
is not actually as pure as people think
it is
it sounds pure toka but it's just a
really [ __ ] bumpy road right so it's
like it's like you're but you're living
a life that I think you find fulfilling
and is aligned with the person that you
are you're noticing that you have
certain advantages and unique qualities
and you're like turning those advantages
and you can equality's into like
opportunities and the world is kind of
like meeting you halfway yeah yeah so
I'm gonna just pause once again cuz I'm
kind of at the end of a train of thought
and I've kind of been monologuing for a
little while so just give you a chance
like any thoughts questions um thoughts
or questions I don't know I feel like as
we've been going most of my questions
have been answered like I felt pretty
like free to be able to just interject
with whatever I was thinking during it
so I don't have any like overall
thoughts that I haven't already stated
so what would you like to do so we can
do a couple of things next alright let
me just see how we're doing on time okay
so we've been talking for just a little
under an hour I'm happy to continue
talking for a little bit longer or even
way longer if you want to so I tend to
stream for about forty five more minutes
so there are a couple of things that we
can do one is we can we can talk about
meditation if you're curious we can talk
about why why people are toxic and why
you used to be toxic and what's changed
or we can talk I think I would still be
qualified as toxic okay so tell me about
toxicity I mean I guess like for me it
seems to like start at frustration so
like the more frustrated you are the
more toxic you'll be and just in general
I guess like being able to like handle
that frustration well is something that
I still saw
like even if I'm not typing to my
teammates anymore recently I still
thinking what I'm saying work or I'm
still thinking and saying like what my
issue is constantly so I guess like
trying to that's one thing that's really
hard for me is like having a more
positive mindset towards like even like
in game doomed situations like well you
know you are like stuck in a negative
situation like how to find positivity in
those moments because it just for me it
just feels like almost like the waste of
time
mmm so trying to like find value within
that I think is something that I've
struggled with which is like why I
consider myself toxic so you you
consider yourself toxic because you have
even though you don't speak toxic we
anymore you still think toxic top
thoughts you say toxic things and you
have a bleak outlook on the
circumstances of the game yes and what
is a non-toxic person do in your
situations how are they different um I
think they're just like more okay just
like giving their best effort and then
not really caring about the result as
much so if they like their I think
they're better at like finding value
within situations that could be like
unwinnable so if like they view it as
like hey this is this is a loss
guaranteed they can still find something
to like learn in the game but for me I
think that I'm at this point I'm very
attached to the result and if the result
is negative it seems like my like all my
thoughts are negative towards myself and
like my teammates do you watch our
streams I do okay but I haven't watched
like every stream in sure entirely I
think the only one that I watched
completely was the Destiny one I found
that one very interesting no it's just a
little bit curious about some of the
dialogue you use because it's the same
dialogue that I use and curious about
yeah interesting so so I mean I think
because it's weird because usually when
I ask people a question about toxicity I
expect them to not have the answer
articulated so well right away maybe
that's because I'm under estimating who
you are and what you've discovered but
yeah it's interesting because I think
that's basically I would agree with you
a hundred percent right and and so maybe
that's my arrogance but I think it's it
also kind of goes back to what you were
saying earlier about you know taking out
the trash right so it sounds like the
barrier of where your growth is is you
have learned how to find value and
things that you've changed the way that
you look at value when it comes to
everything except for actually playing a
game with weak watch it's yeah it does
to playing law you know you you know
you're really good at like finding value
like like discovering value and what you
used to perceive as low value
opportunities like going out with
friends when it comes to [ __ ] law
yeah pretty much yeah
so so let's think a little bit about how
to help you find value in that so that
once again so I'm sure that I could
logically tell you and that you could
logically convince yourself that even in
a losing game there's something to be
learned of course right so what is what
how do you as a whole person respond to
that logical argument I don't know if
that request that's like if I guess I
guess so for me the reason why I'm
frustrated is I just feel like I'm not
gonna be learning enough to satisfy the
negative experience that I'm feeling
like it's not worth being pissed off and
frustrated for that amount of time to
get whatever like small little like
positive piece of information that I
could get out of the game
yep so what so I think this comes down
to and maybe we can kind of come full
circle you know playing a losing game
can can have a positive impact or it can
have a negative impact and it comes
entirely to your attitude so why do you
get so pissed off and weak watches I
think that just inherently it's a
frustrating game um you I know a lot of
the time use dota references right so
it's the same type of situation where at
the end of the day right like you're
only 10% of the game right you're 1 out
of 10 players in the game so so often
you're gonna have like other people
determine the outcome instead of you
right look you can
put your team a little bit up a little
bit down but overall it's going to be
based on like the performance of other
people and not yourself enemies and
teammates for the situation so I think
it's just like an inherently frustrating
experience also there's in the game I
play like I know dota has voice comms
there's no boys comes in this game so
there's almost no communication between
oh interesting
we have lighters doesn't have voice
communication yeah yeah it doesn't have
voice communication so huh for me it's
very frustrating because like I
obviously played a lot of team play like
I screamed with a team I played
professionally for years where I just
feel like it's so much of an of a better
game to play at so much of a better
experience where you're able to just
communicate with your teammates so for
example in like the rare occurrences
where I've been able to like find five
people and get them on discord together
but we've talked it's even if you lose
it's almost always a better experience
when you when you could like hear people
saw it like if somebody dies and they're
like hey my bad like [ __ ] I like [ __ ]
up like whatever that always makes me
feel better than whatever people type
like I think that people are just more
human over voice communication than they
are if you're like text so so so how do
you view people when you're not able to
communicate with them like how do you
actually think about a league of Legends
I don't even view them as like people
absolutely right mouth breather
Neanderthals well I mean just just like
complete waste of space just just toxic
as BOTS right yep yeah and III know so
you know having played a MOBA myself so
I started playing dota maybe like 10 or
12 years ago and and absolutely man you
just completely dehumanize them right
and it's kind of interesting because
like when you dehumanize people like
your experience gets worse yeah it's
easier to also be toxic to them because
like you don't view that like you don't
really like view the impact of your
words is meaningful because you don't
view them as meaningful yeah hey you
know what you're describing kind of
reminds me of like breaking an inanimate
object when you're frustrated like if I
if I like you know if I step on a toy
and I get angry like I'm gonna pick
up the toy and I'm just gonna [ __ ]
throw it into the river and yeah and
it's kind of like you can just unload on
it because it's just this [ __ ] thing
that's making your life worse and it's
annoying and it's bad and I don't like
it great yeah so I think you know we can
it's interesting because I think you're
doing a good job of actually I mean I
feel like I'm learning a lot about the
nature of toxicity and just how much of
the toxicity comes from you know the
dehumanization and that when you're
dealing at humans it's harder to be
toxic what do you do you think that that
sort of translates like why are people
toxic on like on your stream like why
are your viewers toxic he said then
there are always some people who are
just gonna be like so looking for so
like I'll go and say this I think that
League of Legends viewers are innately
toxic like it's just because of the
experience of the game and also I think
they do human eyes you to some point so
if you go out like any League of Legends
stream I think you're gonna find some
degree of negativity unless you why I
just I think that it's just because
people see only your perspective and
they're not and like they'll I guess
over prioritize or under prioritized
things you're doing and not really be
able to see the full picture of what's
going on also I don't think that people
are as focused on what's going on as the
person playing most of the time like
when you're watching a stream you're
just like oh I saw you make one mistake
so that invalidates your criticism of
the team because you're making mistakes
too and they have this like arbitrary
system of all that all mistakes or equal
all situations are equal like that I'm
not sure I think that's it's also that
and then also like if you're more
negative if you're more frustrated
yourself I think people feed off that
because they're like hey this guy's
already pissed off I can get a bigger
reaction out of him like if I am
negative that if I am positive based on
like how he is right now yeah so I think
you bring up a good point about sort of
like you know they don't look at the
whole picture what I'm kind of curious
about is why does someone watch a
twister and try to get a bigger reaction
out of you like what's that about
hmm I guess just like feeling the
connection with the streamer like if you
can get them to react negatively
I feel like they feel like they've
influenced you in some way they feel
more like part of the stream I guess or
they feel like it's a more real
experience and then also I guess part of
it is also like just just doing it for
humor doing it for their own self
gratification
ya know what it's fun like it's funny to
make somebody else angry it's funny for
everyone else when I'm angry it's funny
for everyone else except for me feels
like most of the time yep
so let's just think about that for a
second okay what's up with that why is
it funny for some human beings
you know to make other human beings
angry like why do we enjoy life better
response you get out of me yeah so
that's why I really wish I could look
into a chat right now but I can because
I you know I'm on a laptop and my
potatoes set up but I mean I'm reading a
lot of your comments because we are
sadistic as [ __ ] yes you'll read about
ourselves to make them so the question
is why right like why are why is twitch
at like what what are we tapping into
because I I think it's not I don't think
that human beings are inherently bad I
do think that trolling comes from a very
genuine place deep within side or deep
inside us right I would love to hear
your take on this and and but the
question is why like why do we troll
other humans and what is it about us and
if we kind of thing if we kind of kind
of give you sort of a little bit of a
hint which is that what influences your
toxicity right so what within you
creates your toxicity I guess part of it
is like not being able to like fully
express my skill so like if you're
losing really hard right and I know
there's nothing I can do to win like no
matter if I play like perfectly I think
that not being able to like show people
how good I am really like [ __ ] with me
so I don't know if that's insecurity or
what that is but like that's really
frustrating that's a super frustrating
thing it's like beautiful so let me ask
you something do you think that the
majority of people on
chat are able to fully express their
value as human beings mmm probably not
I'd assume that they're dealing with
whatever same same situation whatever
life they have yes so do you think that
the majority of people who are toxic on
stream or what do you think what do you
think about can you have any idea of how
they feel about themselves okay I'm not
sure right because I would want to say
yeah they probably like a lot of it is
like projection where people are feeling
shitty about themselves so they want to
make somebody else feel shitty but I I
know there's those people that that
aren't like that necessarily good so I
don't want you to give me the right
answer I want you to give me the answer
of your heart and the answer of your
heart is that it's more complicated that
some people are just [ __ ] trolls Yeah
right that's what I'm hearing from you
is that there's supposed to be this
right psychological answer but honestly
some of us are just [ __ ] trolls yes
toxic human beings I agree with you 100%
mm-hmm right so I think that's there's
there's just something fundamentally
human schadenfreude you know what that
word means it's grown a lot recently but
you know so schadenfreude is the German
word for getting deriving pleasure out
of like the pain of others so it's not
quite you say tis imboca Lee why trolls
to do what they do right okay and I
think that too is like fundamentally
human I don't think it has to be a deep
psychological conflict but I do wonder a
little bit about I mean so one so I do
think that you hit on something with
about fully expressing your skill so I
think that there's if we think about
what makes you satisfied in life you
know what we were saying earlier about
the podcast it's like why is the podcast
satisfying to you because it's not about
viewership yeah yeah because at the end
I have like a body of work that I'm
proud of yeah exactly right so you can
look at this and you can say I made this
this is me this is actually an accurate
representation of Who I am I can look at
a piece of work that I have produced and
I can say that this fully expresses my
skill in this moment and you can derive
satisfaction from that you can be fully
yourself and you can create something of
yours
salt and you can derive value of it out
of it that has nothing to do with how
people perceive you has nothing to do
with how many people watch your podcast
it has nothing to do with what kind of
criticism you get it's just about your
internal feeling of being able to
express your skill and I think it you
know what you said makes a lot of sense
I think a lot of people are toxic online
because they can't full they don't have
a place to do that and so they feel
frustration and then they also find a
place where they can vent their
frustration and like you also said I
think that allows them to feel connected
yeah the other thing that I just like to
point out is you were saying earlier
that that your toxicity originally you
said comes from a sense of frustration
so I've also found that most people who
are angry or hurt hey what do you think
about that
I'd agree to some extent so this is a
kind of like most of psychiatrists like
going to like my past or whatever and
one thing that one of them said that
made sense was so I dealt with like a
lot of just like bad experiences early
in my life one of them was so like this
is gonna sound way worse than it is so I
was physically abused by my dad but it
wasn't ever like it was sometimes like
he would lose control but I never was
scared of my dad I never didn't love my
dad it was just like I knew that when he
was triggered like I could trigger him
and I knew that if I triggered him like
there's old be I was get [ __ ] up right
so I dealt with that and then I also I
got robbed at gunpoint when I was like
19 so pretty much a lot of the or the
psychiatrist that I talk to you kind of
formed that as like I have a problem
when people are like hurting me and I
don't and I'm not able to like stand up
to it I'm not able to fight it so
they're kind of tying that into like
maybe how I am with like comments
affecting me or like in this type of
situation frustration because like if
people are saying mean things to me
online I can't do anything to stop them
saying like mean I could mute them but I
actually do anything about it so it's
like a feeling of just like not being
able to deal with the situation
so I think if that makes some sense but
I wasn't completely bought in but tell
me about your skepticism um hmm I don't
know I'm not sure why I just feel like
it's just not true but just like it just
in hmm actually would have to think I'd
have to think more about it so so so I
want you to try to reconstruct july's
maybe this little okay is it okay if we
try to think through that together you
don't want to have this conversation we
just come no no idea I don't think that
I don't think what they said is not true
I think what they said is much like what
I say on stream simplistic so it feels
more incomplete to me than untrue what
do you think got that yeah I think
there's definitely truth within there
like I definitely don't like when people
are hurting me and I can't do anything
about it sure no one does I feel like
most yeah I I don't know if my feeling
of that is more extreme cuz of
experiences I've had in my life though
that's where I'm like kind of lost like
I just I just feel like it's it's
something that like psychiatrist one or
like the Lisa's like I just I I talked
to it just felt like she wanted to find
like a reason behind like a reason in my
early childhood I feel like that's a lot
of what it is like a reason in your
early childhood why that shapes you to
be a certain way yeah and and what I'm
hearing from you is that they may that
may have influenced a bit that we're
missing something right so when we think
about like Reddit mischaracterizing you
we can sort of say like oh like this is
this is what we do then via in the
psychiatry videos like the Sigmund Freud
one and we kind of say oh is that the
people on Reddit and the twitch chat is
your fossa and they are hitting you and
says nothing you can do about it and we
like causal connections and you say oh
that's wonderful it's so beautiful I
mean it's not beautiful but via enamored
with the analytical part of it
yep but it sounds like it's incomplete
right so like like it when reddit
mischaracterizes you III think it
actually is quite different and let me
tell you why so when your dad it sounds
like when when he used to hit you you
sort of understood that like the weather
like it didn't actually I'm not hearing
that it evoke to that much emotion in
you it was kind of like you yet well I
always felt like I did it myself you
know
like I knew I think I was smart enough
as a kid to identify like when I was
doing things that were going to get me
like hit like when I was triggering my
dad's like I understood when I was
triggering him fully so I felt like I
had a decent out of control over the
situation in that respect so it's not
like I guess that's part of I guess I
guess it's kind of ties in to what you
were saying before like why do I think
it's completely not true because I did
feel like I had some level of control I
felt like I could say certain things
like like if I said to my dad I don't
love you anymore something like that
like the kids say to their parents right
like I would get hit yes so actually
actually Dom this sounds very different
from to me so I think we're talking
about two different things because when
I think about what you're describing you
have agency in the situation with your
dad Yeah right what I'm hearing about
reddit and lul is actually the exact
opposite yeah that you have no power to
change yes yes so that's what I'm trying
to say he's like that's the that's where
I think that there is like well I do
think I have some degree of power but I
just think that it's really hard it
feels different to me it feels like
we're talking about two different things
mm-hmm does that make sense yes so let
me ask you this have you had it cuz via
via via going to talk about Sood's oh
have you had a period like his something
happened to you that you remember where
you felt really really unable to alter
other people's opinions of you um where
people judged you or treated you a
certain way and you couldn't do anything
about it when I was a child or now or
anytime
um where you were mischaracterized
I'm not sure uh I think I think maybe I
was mischaracterized a little bit by my
parents but I think if that's like
normal just in in terms of what just
like what I was good at you know like it
always kind of was like oh you're just
like you're not a hard worker because
you don't work hard in school but I felt
like I was always a hard worker at
things that I cared about right so like
when I was when I was in high school
like when I had my first girlfriend you
know I felt like I put a lot into the
relationship because I cared about her
and I cared about that experience um
when I you know would play sports I
cared a lot about the results of my team
so I felt like I was I'm able to work
hard I just don't have the capability to
work hard about things I don't care
about is what I would I would say hmm
yeah so I think that makes sense does
that is the way that when they told you
that do you mean did you feel the way
that when they judged you in that way
did you feel the way that you do when
someone shows something on Reddit and
mischaracterizes you yeah it's like the
whole like you don't actually get me
you're like missing the point type thing
yeah
and is there is there been a particular
time where it's not so much about them
abusing you but then like missing the
point like if someone is there been a
time in your life where you felt like it
was really important for someone to like
understand you and they missed the point
um yeah I mean I guess with the whole
reddit situation that's pretty much
mainly what it is yeah like I feel like
it's like okay you could over focus on
like it's like I said mean things true
but like the problem that I'm dealing
with like what I what I'm trying to get
at like overall concept is just like not
being attacked it's like I'm just being
attacked just person because what I said
yeah so are you still seeing a therapist
or psychiatrist no okay so one thing to
just think a little bit about is that so
first of all I I agree with so I trust
your sentiment that you know if you feel
like what the psychiatrist's say which
if we had talked about it I likely would
have come to the same conclusion because
we're trained to think in a particular
way if I trust you though in the sense
that I've come to trust what people
believe
themselves irrespective of how brilliant
my hypothesis and formulation is if it
doesn't fit with you I think it's just
wrong I think ultimately you are the
judge jury and executioner of knowing
what is right and what is wrong and is
knowledgeable or a studied as I am I you
know I don't [ __ ]
I don't live your life so I can't no I
can't really yeah yeah I mean so just to
clarify I didn't stop going to the
psychiatrist because I felt like it
wasn't useful I think that it was just
kind of like I understood what I wanted
to do like it was kind of like okay you
told you gave me a bunch of information
I'm gonna try to like apply that to my
life and then like it's not like I can
just see them every week and that's
going to drastically change it's like I
need to actually have some time to live
my life differently and then based off
that like I still plan on potentially
seeing her like again at some point it's
just I just wanted to like kind of work
on this stuff it's like it's almost like
information overload it's like okay
you've given me like all this stuff to
do takes a while to like set it up I had
it up I feel better now so I probably
should go back at some point like even
when I'm in a positive mental state like
I don't feel like I only need to go
there when I'm not feeling well but um
yeah just like I kind of just wanted to
work on things myself and just see the
results
yeah I'm glad you clarified that I at
the same time I didn't get the
perception I mean it sounded to me like
you had three to four sessions that were
very useful yeah it's very good yeah the
reason the reason that you stopped going
was not because you were fixed or that
it wasn't helping but just because like
you got a lot out of it and you needed
to apply it to your life and and so the
reason I kind of asked you is because I
think if you go back or when you go back
then you should consider sort of
exploring this aspect and instead of
attributing it to you know you being
powerless against redit it sounds like
like your dad is actually a different
situation because you felt like in a
sense you are in control and maybe
that's also why you said yes you know it
was you made an interesting discovery
actually feel like their parents don't
love them or their parents are like
alcoholics and do it and like they just
like they live in fear
the time like never left lived in fear
of my dad yeah I never thought that he
was like just gonna hit me randomly it
was always like if we get into a
conversation we get into like an
argument and I say certain things I can
like like it would yeah I think that
part of it was just like being like
manipulative like as a kid like I
understood that like if my mom sees my
dad hit me I'm Adam Attica Lee right in
the argument you know it's like oh then
it's suddenly you never hit the kid like
it's is that this whole thing so I think
that I was kind of like me being like
you know being a little [ __ ] so so I
think that what I'm hearing from you is
that what makes it not as bad as it
sounds is that it sounds like you
actually had a fair amount of control
and power in that relationship despite
being physically weaker yes and that a
lot of times when people are in abusive
situations part of the most damaging
part is not necessarily a physical the
physical abuse but in the lack of power
or control in the relationship which I
didn't feel like I actually felt like I
had power like that yeah that's the
things I felt like I had power even
though he was hitting me yeah so that
sounds completely opposite of the
situation on reddit like it so I guess I
get that now that we've like talked it
through more that's why I don't agree
with that yep discussion because it is
just different
apparently I completely agree that's
really useful yeah well it helps to have
someone who's very insightful and pays
attention so I I didn't hear you because
they cut out well I said you can have
someone who's insightful and pays
attention try my best
thanks man I appreciate it and so so I
was just gonna say I think if you visit
that psychiatrist again I think it's
worthy exploring that dichotomy right
that like actually the feeling with your
dad is very different from the feeling
with Rhetta and if we ever do a
follow-up and you want to talk more
about that we can talk more about that
but one thing that I mean cuz also it
sounds like you had kind of a little bit
of a light bulb there so fantastic so
you can play with that you know work
with it do whatever you want to I wanted
to just give you I just I wanted to give
you the opportunity if you're interested
to learn a little bit about meditation
and that maybe we could meditate
together before we wrap up we don't have
to but I just want to make sure we have
enough time
for that if you're interested sure yeah
oh I would love to like have some you
know direction with meditation so tell
me a little bit about your experience of
meditation so far it's very very limited
so like I took a yoga class a while back
and we do meditation so I mean I like I
understand like to having like correct
posture sitting up trying to like
concentrate on your breathing and just
like like trying not to think like I
just always end up thinking about
something I'm trying not to think well I
guess I guess that yeah that was kind of
how I understood it like you kind of
want to let like your mind like rest or
something or you want to just yeah maybe
I'm wrong about this but you are kind
you are wrong so I think that's why your
have got a faculty we can fix that okay
because trying not to think if you're
trying not to think you're doing it
wrong and you're never gonna be
successful and and most people it's a
very very very common misconception but
you can't try not to think trying not to
think is going to be the opposite of
what meditation is so let's start there
so when you're trying not to think are
you are you creating tension or
relaxation within your mind
attention definitely absolutely and so
so what are you doing within your mind
what kind of tension what's on the two
sides like so tension it implies like
pulling or conflict between two sides
what are on the two sides of the tension
I guess just like you're naturally
thinking and then you're telling
yourself don't do that exactly right so
you're fighting with yourself so as long
as you're fighting within yourself
you're never gonna be able to meditate
in fact it is the very opposite because
what you're doing is you're fueling more
thoughts mm-hmm does that make sense
yeah so I want you guys to understand
that energy in the mind produces
thoughts and thoughts in the mind
produce energy so if we think about you
so that you've been diagnosed with panic
disorder so for example when you're
panicking is your mind super energetic
or low energy oh it's super super
energetic absolutely
right and is there is or when you're
panicking is there tension within your
mind or their parts of your mind that
are fighting oh yeah it's all a fight
like for me it was always like because
my main symptom was like breathing okay
it's felt like I couldn't breathe so
it's constantly like like like okay no
you are breathing you're definitely
breathing and then like the other side
it's like no you're not breathing like
something seriously wrong with you like
you're gonna [ __ ] die do something
yeah so would you say that oftentimes in
panic disorder when you were panicking
you are actually trying not to think
certain thoughts yeah definitely
right so let's just think about that for
a second while you're in a panic attack
you are trying not to think certain
thoughts and your goal in meditation is
to try not to think certain thoughts so
what you're actually doing is the same
mode of activity so if we think about
the mechanics of the mind you're doing
the same mode of activity as a panic
attack I'm not saying that it's actually
the same as a panic attack what I'm
saying is if we tunnel down into like
the function of what your mind is doing
it's a what you're creating energy panic
attacks or high energy and you're trying
not to think certain things so it's
actually very similar to a panic attack
which is why it hasn't worked for you
right because essentially you're like
sort of doing the same thing as a panic
attack so what we actually want to do is
is so this is also good because I mean a
lot of times I really struggle when
people are meditating right
because then it's hard to teach them but
if they're doing something colossal E
wrong and I say this with love Dom
because at this point I have some
genuine affection for you you're doing
it colossal E wrong so that's actually
pretty good because it's also better for
me yeah exactly so the the first thing
is to try to not try to think or try
okay not try try not to try not anything
yeah right so essentially what we need
to do I want you to think about try not
to think yeah and and so but that too is
trying so you can do that as much as you
want to and that's still gonna create
tension so so what we actually need to
do is is stop the trying entirely and
what we need to do is try to relax wrap
it that's gonna you can't try to relax
that
the other thing you're ever having
trouble falling asleep you're like man I
just really need to relax and go to
sleep and what does that do does that
let you sleep no it's the opposite right
so what we need to do is is train you
how to let go and there are two ways
that we can do that we can either
directly try to train you how to let go
but you seem to me to be a Trier does
that make sense yeah you're a Trier so I
think it's a big part of your your
cognitive fingerprint so the way the
unique way that your mind works for
those of you who are interested in
Ayurveda Dom has a lot of bit that if
you watched anything about our Father
you know okay so that you can even see
it in his name right so I will dominate
is PIPA so you have a fiery mind
it's about domination suppression
argument trying effort passion conflict
like that's where you excel creation
it's like a very very active mind so I
think what we actually need to do is
direct to your mind so we need to have
we need to give you we don't want to try
to not think we want to give you
something to focus on exactly we want to
direct your thinking because this - it
sounds like what you you benefit I mean
your your intellect is actually quite
profound and you're very easily able to
take information and direct your
thinking in a new way
and and what I want you to do is just if
you go back and watch the vaad that's
basically what we've been doing for an
hour and a half like when you talked
about reframing right like in looking at
things in a new way
giving your your mind a frame why does
your mind thrive with a frame because
then you can focus your energy in one
way so frame allows you to focus your
energy and what you're really good at is
actually focusing your energy okay right
so what we need to do for you to
meditate is give you something that
focuses the full attention of your mind
do you do you have a reluctance to use a
breathing technique no okay
I use breathing techniques to help my
panic disorder so what kind of breathing
have you done it just likes really
standard into the nose out through the
mouth deep breaths like that type of
thing okay so I want to give you
something that is going to be men
to lead taxing okay so what we want to
do for you to be able to meditate what
we need is for the energy of your mind
not to be built up through tension but
through dissipate through effort okay
does that make sense yeah
so Wigan we can try a couple of things
okay so I'm gonna just I gotta sit
across like so so is it gonna be like
more complicated breathing techniques
absolutely require more attention
absolutely okay we're gonna try to
complicate you to the extent of what you
can handle okay perfect yeah and so the
first so if you've watched streams
before you gotta let me know if you've
tried this at home okay so the first
thing that I'm gonna try to teach you is
something called triphasic breathing so
it's a relatively somatic experience and
it should be like cognitively a little
bit burdensome okay okay so what I'm
gonna ask you to do is sit up straight
and close your eyes
mm-hmm do you know how to belly breathe
yes okay so what I want like with your
diaphragm yes so the first thing that I
want you to do so I'm gonna just teach
other people so I want everyone at home
to do this - okay so close your eyes and
I want you to breathe with your belly
and what that means is when you breathe
in expand your stomach kind of push your
abdomen out and when you breathe out
contract your belly and pull in and what
you can do is kind of focus on your
navel your belly button and when you
breathe in imagine your belly button
moving away from your spine and when you
breathe out pull your belly button in
towards your spine try to decrease the
distance between your belly button and
your spine as you breathe out and so
what you should feel is your belly
moving out during inhalation in your
belly moving in during exhalation
and we're gonna go ahead and do that for
about 15 seconds before the next step
and really try to focus on your abdomen
as you breathe try to expand it to its
fullest
now Dom what I want you to do is as you
breathe in and as you breathe out try to
minimize the movement of your chest so
try to keep it as localized in the
abdomen as possible
you may feel some chest expansion or
contraction that's okay but really try
to direct all of your breath into the
abdomen and minimize the chest we'll do
this for about 15 to 20 seconds
and now we move to step two so after you
fully breathe in with your belly I want
you to pause for a second and then try
to expand your chest and breathe in even
more while keeping your belly still so
full breath into the belly extra breath
with the chest in sequence and then go
ahead and exhale and relax both good
practice that full in with the belly
first the second phase of breathing is
expansion of the chest and then
relaxation will do this for 15 seconds
another five seconds and now the next
step I want you to break down the
exhalation the same way you break down
the inhalation so breathe in with the
belly expand the chest hold the belly
still contract the chest then breathe
out the rest of the way through the
belly so now we have four discrete steps
to the practice phase one breathe in
with the belly phase two breathe in with
the chest phase three relax the chest
phase four relax the belly and you
should feel a little bit of a stop
between each phase we're gonna do this
for fifteen seconds
and now we're gonna do phase three
expand the belly expand the chest hold
for a moment and then push your
shoulders up as you expand just a tiny
bit more
so belly out chest out shoulders up and
now exhale all together breathe in with
the belly breathe in with the chest
raise your shoulders and breathe in a
tiny bit more and then relax all three
good in with the belly expand the chest
raise the shoulders and then out
continue at your own pace for about
fifteen seconds
and now we're gonna tie it all together
so we're gonna segment our exhalation in
the opposite of our inhalation so in
with the belly I'm sorry
expand the belly expand the chest raise
your shoulders really like hunch them up
a little bit to get as much in as you
can and then relax the shoulders first
bring them down contract the chest let
it relax and then the third phase is
move your navel towards your spine so in
a third in a third in a third out a
third out a third out a third and we're
gonna practice for 30 seconds
I want you to do three more rounds three
more breaths and after the third round I
want you to just sit relax let your
breath do whatever it wants to and
observe what your breath is doing after
you stop just notice it and sit with
that new kind of breath
and now dumb let your eyes stay closed
and let yourself come back right so
notice the return of your your mind and
now put your hands together in front of
you put your palms together in front of
you good rub them together rub rub rub
rub rub rub rub feel that heat that
friction good cut them over your eyes as
you breathe in and exhale slowly open
your eyes with your palms over them and
when your breath is complete let your
hands come down yeah that's crazy really
cool what what do you mean by crazy
let's die well I noticed that when you
said to concentrate on my breathing
again like at first it was really
different so I feel like super more like
way more awake than I did before so I
feel like way more like conscious but I
guess my breathing like before that like
diaphragm breathing I was focusing on
diaphragm breathing but then once I
stopped doing like the segmented
breathing my diaphragm breathing was
natural so then when I was like just
breathe however you want I went back to
like diaphragm breathing there naturally
even though before I was breathing like
higher up like in my chest
naturally yep so yeah the breathing was
definitely way different what was your
mind doing just focusing on focusing on
doing it correctly each step feels like
it was kind of hard to manage it so I'm
getting actually more air in each point
because like those times route try to
breathe into my chest and then it's like
okay now try to breathe more with your
shoulders and I'm already like max
capacity capacity on air so trying to
just do it correctly
well over and over what kind of thoughts
were you having
[Music]
I'm like very just like calm relaxed
thoughts like and I was thinking I guess
part of what I was thinking about was it
like made me feel like like a kid again
almost in a way because the last time I
did diaphragm breathing I played music
and that was something that they like
trained you to do as wooden players like
breathe through your diaphragm so I was
just like thinking about like Oh last
time I did this I remember like like the
joy of being a kid so I guess I just
felt like joy so so hold on there's a
big difference between remembering the
joy of being a kid and feeling joy
mm-hmm
well I felt like happy like when I when
I stopped doing this like I just like I
can't stop smiling right now for some
reason yeah so I guess I am feeling some
amount of like happiness yeah so that
also means that you're meditating right
so this is what happens when people
meditate they start to feel happy
so like enlightenment or moksha is
liberate is defined as liberation which
sort of in platon implies freedom but
also bliss onon which it means bliss and
so when people meditate they just feel
happier and so last question I have as
you can just see you can just do that to
yourself every day meditation is [ __ ]
Opie yeah it's absolutely thing that's
what people keep on talking about the
problem is that they do such a shitty
job teaching it that people don't like
it's absolutely Opie like there's no
question that you can just make yourself
happy every day yeah man so you so you'd
recommend doing that like before I just
started my day like right like when you
wake up like I win at a point or I would
not recommend that okay I would I
wouldn't recommend anything for you you
tell me yeah well like I guess when I
would wake up I would just feel happy at
the beginning of the day so probably
like that would be what I would
naturally think it'd be the best time
for it good then that's when you should
do it remember it's not about external
formulas of success it's about your
uniqueness yeah listen to yourself
you will know when to meditate perfect
I'm gonna do that when I wake up yep
so one thing I will tell you is that if
you can do it around dawn
dusk there are lots of texts that are
thousands of years old that say that
your yield from meditation will be
greater okay well it works for you I
don't know it sounds like you start
streaming pretty early so you may be up
around dawn yeah yeah it'd be like 6 7
a.m. okay yep do you have a place that
you can see the Sun my balcony or I can
go yeah my balcony so I would consider
watching the sunrise or being exposed to
sunrise and meditating in that situation
if you want to go like hardcore and be
like a yoga hippy you can go do that you
could also do it while streaming in
front of a computer in bizarrely you
don't have to do it in a very special
place like that's what's cool is you can
do it wherever you are
mm-hmm and you'd recommend I do it the
same way with the segmented breathing
you're like stuck would I do it the same
way where I start with just diaphragm
breathing and that I do diaphragm to
chest then to shoulder a bit and then
like back down and then diaphragm to
Chester shoulders like that same
technique what do you think well I mean
that's just naturally what I'll do
because that's what gave me that go for
happiness response go for it right so I
think the main thing here so the last
thing I'll ask you Dom is what happened
to your perception of time during that
practice hmm I'm not sure was that a
long time I I don't know what happened
to my perception I think I lost my
perception of time excellent that means
you're doing it right right okay so you
weren't trying to not think so if you
lose perception of time so time happens
within the mind right so like while
we're asleep we lose our perception of
time now that we're talking your
perception of time is returned does that
make sense yeah and and so if you lose
your perception of time that means that
you're entering a no mind state and so
that means that you're also not thinking
thoughts so it seems like you had
thoughts from time to time but for most
of the practice or maybe not most I
don't know how much but it sounds like
you definitely got to a place where
you're you're a tenth the attention of
your cut of your consciousness was
focused on you without thoughts so you
were a conscious but you are not
actually thinking things and even then
it whether you recalled whether you had
the thought of oh this is like being a
child that it sounds like you
had the experience of joy that was
similar to you being a child but the
thought of this reminds me of being a
child and that experience of joy are
separate things does that make sense
one is a thought one is not so I just
probably linked it in my head because of
like so we had the thought and then I
had the experience and I just linked it
naturally but they weren't connected
yeah so you had the experience and then
your mind because this is what it does
scans based on prior experiences and
makes connections okay like every time I
go to the bathroom and I flush the
toilet my mind connects that little
handle with the toilet flushing so
that's what the mind does but I'm any
way we're kind of getting a little bit
deep but just understand that there's
actually a lot of cool stuff that
happened within Dom that is not thinking
is that okay like there wasn't that
wasn't all just thought it's like weird
experiences so yeah so I think you're
doing it I think the main thing is that
you need something so in order for you
to get to that state it's got to be
challenging mm-hmm okay it's like it's
kind of like saying like it's easy to
not get toxic when you're playing noobs
and loll because you're climbing because
it's like NBD so you need to be at a
high degree of competition with your
mind so if it and I so I think you
decide kind of what the cognitive you
can do it whichever so eventually what I
assume is gonna happen is over time like
I'll be more practiced at that type of
breathing method and it will become like
easier for me which will make it like
yeah that I'm gonna need new challenges
so how what do i do from there happens
so that's why advanced meditation
techniques exist right so there's
beginner meditation there's advanced
meditation there's Expo meditation so so
my path of learning meditation I learned
a bunch of techniques for about three
months when I was living in India at an
ashram came back to the u.s. practice
those techniques for a year went back
and then went to the advanced class
which are more engaging more cognitively
like more focusing deeper techniques and
then eventually you'll start to have you
know different kinds of experiences
within meditation that are kind of cool
and fun Wow
I didn't even know this stuff was
possible like I thought it was like a
myth I thought it wasn't like hippy
stuff or something you know yeah I'm
with you that's because that's how it's
[ __ ] taught most of the time so the
problem with meditation is that we to
become a meditation teacher you have to
have a class right then cuz that's how
we determine someone's an expert it's
[ __ ] dumb
someone has to completes the class they
go through the motions they become a
meditation teacher know like meditation
teacher is about experience and like the
competence that comes from it and then
if you're a good meditation teacher you
should be able to take someone and teach
them how to meditate properly right like
that's yep but good I'm very happy for
you yeah whatever I did before I don't
think that was meditation yeah I guess I
haven't tried meditation until this you
haven't tried so so this is where there
are a couple of different words for
meditation so meditation is two things
one is a verb it's a practice that you
do the other thing is it's a state of
mind I think you have tried meditation I
think you have not achieved the
meditative state of mind until today
okay
thoughts of lots of questions before you
wrap up that I understood why it was
good and like I like I understood the
reasoning behind it but I just didn't
think it was like that like I didn't
think that you actually liked so I'll
let you in on a little secret like
everyone who talks about the benefits of
meditation or is missing the [ __ ]
point what you felt is the [ __ ] point
it's not about reductions of anxiety
it's not about improvements of in
depression this is why people meditate
understand this very clearly but though
was not trying to treat people's anxiety
which is what we do now right we use but
like oh you should use headspace oh
you've got panic attacks like Oh use
headspace that's not why blood though
was doing it would that was doing it for
what you experienced today that's the
reason you meditate perfect absolutely
man
good I'm so happy for you I'm very very
happy for you
that's really cool okay well I
appreciate that thank you
of course man that's gonna that's
definitely gonna change things going
forward okay well good for you good no I
just say you know if you run into any
trouble or anything like that
feel free to drop me a line or something
you know I'm happy to continue to help
you or guide you okay awesome okay I
appreciate that a lot
any thoughts or questions before you
wrap up I'm good okay awesome and thank
you so much for coming on and thank you
so much for sharing like everything that
you did because I certainly learned a
lot and hopefully it was helpful to
other people too yeah
good luck man take care all right thanks
all righty
okay so we're about at time for today
and so I wanna yeah so he's a bit though
absolutely right so we just we get a lot
of Bottas well what happens is like
electronics worse and Vata so we see a
lot more Vata disturbance then then bit
that disturbance in gaming but i
absolutely think that toxicity is an
example of bit the disturbance but yeah
so that was I don't know I mean how was
like I know that we didn't like you know
he didn't start breaking down and crying
and stuff which I know is why how some
people gauged the value of a session I
definitely don't think of it that way
and yeah so I want to thank you guys
hopefully that was helpful for y'all I
really think that so I think Dom has a
very very good experience allure
intuitive understanding of a lot of the
things that I think hold our audience or
gamers or Gen Z back Millennials which
is sort of like you know he's orienting
towards himself like he's understanding
that activities are not good or bad that
like if you don't like school it's not
necessarily school's fault that you have
an individual contribution to the way
that you live your life and how
activities are experienced right so like
a great example like he said was from
from Jay Cole and taking out the trash
that you can change something in your
mind that makes you enjoy things more
and that is 100% been my experience so
like what I found is that you know I
used to dislike life and that you can
actually do some kind of process of
reflection and observation that through
reflection
observe a
and understanding activities that you
used to dislike are more able to be done
not necessarily saying that I like doing
them but that I'm able to do them and
then so that can then that gets to the
question of how do you understand
because watching someone else tell you
that conclusion it doesn't make it easy
for you to take out the trash so I think
another kind of meditative practice that
you all can think about is just take out
the trash right and when you take out
the trash or clean something and notice
yourself before take a snapshot of
yourself before notice that you don't
feel like doing it do the thing and then
take a snapshot after how do you feel
afterward so study yourself in the way
that you read guides to like climb you
know rank and League of Legends or in
the way that you like you know read
about this and study other things in the
way that you guys keep up with
coronavirus and understand what's going
on understand yourself and try to try to
be a little bit more unique instead of
like you know just following an external
road to success because following the
external road to success [ __ ] doesn't
work and so stop doing it like look
within yourself everyone is a snowflake
right that's actually the whole point
like I have a video mapped out about
this that I want to do but but you guys
you are snowflakes and you should treat
yourself as a snowflake because you are
a snowflake no one with your set of
experiences and your set of advantages
and your set of disadvantages has ever
existed in the history of the universe
and never will again so you are unique
and you better start playing the game of
life that way you better stop playing
based on like what other characters with
other stats do and understand like what
you are and how you are unique and what
we can hear from Dom very clearly is
that when he stopped gravitating towards
objective success and started
gravitating towards being unique he
became more fulfilled and more
successful and I did the same exact
thing